It builds.
So does he.
And I'll tell you what.
Brick followed block followed brick
followed block followed brick followed
block.
The world says, it's not possible.
The builder pushes on.
He strikes the keys with all his heart.
Here's to you, Builder.
Here's to Ys.
hey everyone uh welcome to the uh first
a term economic zone uh community call my
name is arman uh from easy and i'm
a coordinator of the easy uh so i'm
gonna present this call uh so i would
like to invite first uh frederike and uh
and then uh jordi bailina and uh
our Zisk team as well.
We have Edu, and we have Filip,
and we have Jesus.
Let me introduce all of them here.
So yeah, we all managed this call.
Basically, what we are doing right now,
two months ago,
we announced a framework to solve Ethereum
fragmentation.
Today,
we are going deep on why this framework
makes sense.
In forty-five minutes,
you will hear from Frederike on the
fragmentation and the economics of EASY.
Jordi and Eduardo and Yesus and also Filip
on the tech side and they will present
technical details about EASY and then we
will answer your questions.
Before we start,
I just want to highlight lots of news
from the EZ.
We were in Prague last week and we
had a very nice fires chat with the
participation of Vitalik and Jordi.
Also Jordi technical presentation record
is live.
Please find if you haven't watched yet.
I highly recommend it.
So yeah, let's start with Frederike first.
Frederike,
you are co-initiator of EZ and you have
mentioned that Ethereum has a
fragmentation problem,
not scaling problem.
Let's start there.
Walk us through the problem.
Why synchronous composability is the
answer?
Yeah, absolutely.
So I would slightly modify this.
So Ethereum doesn't have a scaling problem
anymore.
We very much used to have a scaling
problem.
So a few years ago,
the average transaction cost in excess of
ten dollars on Ethereum mainnet.
And in response to that,
we actually got roll ups on top of
Ethereum to which we
off-boarded a lot of the compute that
previously happened on L-one driving down
prices again.
So we used to have a scalability problem.
Now we don't really have a scalability
problem anymore,
but it kind of this led to a
new problem,
namely that Ethereum and these various
rollups,
they don't talk with each other in the
same way that things on Ethereum can talk
to each other natively.
Okay,
so the Ethereum economic zone is a way
of fixing that,
of fixing that fragmentation that ensued
after we offloaded a lot of the compute
onto various LTOs.
Thank you for the detailed answer.
Yeah, I mean,
why what do you think like what does
one coherent ethereum actually look like
for you after resolving the fragmentation
and the many problems with the easy how
do you see this card ethereum in many
ways it looks exactly like the ethereum we
had before we got edges right so um
the beauty of ethereum um beforehand was
that um
things would just compose with each other
so kind of one person could build a
stable protocol another person could build
an oracle the third person could build a
lending market and the fourth person could
build a prediction market and somehow kind
of like all of these could plug into
each other seamlessly and without actually
having to ask for permission and um
without having to have
this pre-planned in some way.
This is also why we chose the Lego
blocks for the video.
This is how Ethereum used to work and
what largely broke when we introduced
L-Tools.
We used to have one zone with Legos
and anyone could build
um, on top of other people's Legos.
Um,
and then we had different buckets and kind
of,
they all had Legos in themselves and they
kind of had all had kind of like
Lego landscapes that kind of work in and
of themselves.
Um, but, um,
building with different pieces in
different DAGO zones was impossible.
And this has very much changed with the
advances of real-time proofing.
So now we can actually prove the state
of another chain to any other chain,
more or less in real time.
So that chain can use that state as
an input for its computation.
Because any one network has a complete
understanding of its own state.
But understanding the other network state
is always kind of where the trouble comes
in.
Until recently,
proving the state of another network was
stupid.
So you could compose,
but you couldn't do it synchronously.
And kind of this is the composability is
where the magic comes back.
And if you have that feeling again that
you have different protocols that can now
very well sit on different parts of the
EUT in different networks,
but that can still plug into each other
as seamlessly as we used to before we
actually got L-tools.
so the vision is coherence i'll say so
now i would like to invite to show
how actually works i would like to invite
to
Jordi and Edu and Jesus and Filip also
can easily contribute the technical scope
of the EASY.
So, yeah,
I hand over to my hands to Edu.
Please show your presentation.
Thank you.
Yeah, I need to share my screen.
Give me a second.
Okay.
I think you can see now, right?
So yeah,
very excited to be here today giving an
update on the current technical status
with the help of Jordi and Jesús.
So yeah,
today we are going to cover several
topics.
So the idea is to give a kind
of an introduction about our current
status, how we end up here,
Then Jesus is going to go into deep
into the smart contract parts.
And then Jordi is going to cover the
multi-proving system.
And finally,
I'm going to give kind of a glimpse
of the roadmap that we have in mind
for this technology to go to production.
So yeah, our journey to the present,
I want to try to be quite quick
on this part,
but just summarizing what has happened so
far.
So mainly we present ECC,
We rushed a lot to have something to
present to the community.
The idea was mainly to explain what we
want to build,
how we want to build it,
but also try to make a showcase about
what we can do with this technology.
So for that we did the first version
of the smart contract,
for that we used the
the research specification that Jordi did.
It's a table-based implementation,
and this has been explained in other talks
by Jordi.
For this,
we try to cover as much as complex
cases just to be one hundred percent sure
that the spec at the time was capable
enough to cover all the complex situations
like reverts or nested calls or reentrant
calls.
We create the repository,
the organization, each association.
We added two repositories to this one,
the Sincrolabs protocol that is mainly the
smart contracts and the Sincrolabs
composer that is mainly the implementation
of this first specification.
And yeah,
we did a proof of concept of all
this technology.
We created the cc.dev side using Rails and
the bookstrace called many.
We proved that everything works and yeah,
it was quite impressive even for our team
to be able to do that so fast.
But yeah,
obviously it was not a final thing.
It was kind of just a proof of
concept.
So after ECC,
when we got back to home,
we started to design how we can build
this for a production environment.
And that is the thing that we are
doing currently.
So the core of everything are the smart
contracts.
That is why we are putting all our
focus on making a final version of this,
production ready and strong enough to
cover all the things that we want to
cover with this protocol.
We did a big refactor and polished several
things like naming and other stuff.
This is going to give you a quick
intro to smart contracts.
We changed this stable implementation to a
nested flattened approach just to try to
have a better,
a big improvement on gas costs of this.
And also we added the same multi-probing
mode that is making the protocol more
flexible.
So today our expectation is to merge this
new version of the smart contract,
what we call it the first draft,
a draft that we expect the community to
give us feedback and with the idea of
having something ready to be updated in
one month or so.
So with that being ready is when we
can start to build the other components
for production.
And also in parallel we are working on
this rollup zero, rollup one,
mainly base rollups that allow us to prove
all the functionality,
to have something strong that is able to
prove all the functionalities and
production ready.
So yeah,
now we are working on all these things
in parallel and try to move as fast
as we can to make this happen.
So now Jesus is going to jump into
the smart contacts.
So Jesus, your turn.
Hi.
Hi, everyone.
I fixed this slide,
but it seems that it's not yet fixed,
but it's OK.
I will, as you see,
there is an arrow,
a pink arrow that is a little blurry,
but I will explain anyway.
Hi.
I will do a smart contact review,
as Edu presented.
And well,
this contract will be kind of the center
of what Easy will settle or what Easy
allows, right?
We will have a small contract as an
entry point and I'll explain more or less
the properties.
One,
the idea is that everyone can register a
rollup.
As you can see, well,
maybe it's a little bit small,
but in the right side,
we have the green boxes that are rollups.
Later on,
we will see it better and bigger,
but right now it's just a global overview
to see.
what I'm going to explain.
And then we'll have a,
so each thing can define his own rollup
with his own rules.
And maybe you can create a new rollup
or add an existing one.
Like it doesn't matter every,
as long as you can register it here
and you can kind of link the settlement
or settle in this contract,
you you're able to, to join this,
this common effort or the chain is able
to join this,
or at least is how we define it
for now.
Then each rollout can define his own proof
systems,
which this is completely open and
agnostic.
So each network can choose to maybe to
be verified by SP one or OpenVM,
a multi-sig or a consensus.
They can choose whatever,
or proving system we call it they want,
which we abstracted and we say, okay,
it's whatever contract that you want,
that basically you put it
input hash,
so you put a parameters and you put
a proof and it must return true or
false.
So the idea again is this completely
permissionless and it's neutral and we
improvise with this framework in order to
make a solution, right?
Again,
this contract also will try to settle all
the chains together.
What I mean is like all the chains
together that interacts in the same set of
transactions.
So if there are two roll-ups that are
interacting between them or two chains and
we want to prove all the interactions for
sure,
that they happen,
basically they need to settle together,
right?
It cannot happen that one settles and the
other not,
and then we could have like a double
spending or something like that.
So if they interact together,
they must settle together,
which makes sense.
And finally,
this contract will manage the interactions
between L one.
So we'll see later how we kind of
make a trick or how we kind of
make a contract
prepared to be able to interact with L
two.
And from the user perspective,
it will be the same as just using
a smart contract that it's in natively on
L one,
but it actually will execute a L two
logic and return the whatever it's
returning.
So we can go to the next slide.
Okay,
I go now step by step of the
points I said.
As you see,
anyone can register a roll-up and when you
register a roll-up, basically you say,
okay, this is my roll-up.
There will be a roll-up contract that can
have a, it's open,
how they can manage can be a multi-sig
or an owner or whatever.
And basically you will approve some proof
systems, as I say,
like this abstracted thing that,
for example, let's say you have a,
I don't know, a disk and a multi-sig,
right?
And then your roll-up will settle on easy,
but it can only be settled if you
provide a zero-knowledge proof that
everything is correct and, I don't know,
a signature to double-check that
everything is correct.
That will be, for example, one setup.
Next slide.
Okay, as I said before,
the proof system is completely open for
the rollup to choose.
You can pick a one of n,
you can do a conditions like I want
only OpenVM.
I want OpenVM and a multisig.
I want one of zero knowledge,
one prover that must be zero knowledge and
one prover that must be a signature,
for example.
All this logic is abstracted to the change
or to the users,
and it's time to define a prover.
You can define the VKey,
which for those that they are not used
to zero knowledge systems or GKVMs,
basically this will be the configuration
or the program that you are executing of
that green system.
and and this is very this is very
nice because then you can easily verify
multiple rollups in the same proof so for
example if we have a five rollups that
are settling with disk and openvm we could
have just two proofs for the five rollups
so this allows us to or allows the
the system itself to scale very well and
to share cost between all the rollups
which is very nice next slide
Okay,
and here is where I explained the atomic
settlement and this like it's a little
bit.
Sorry,
but I hope they at least I can
explain how how it works,
so a color which will be a color
will be approval, for example,
or or about it or.
or the entity that already has all the
batches or all the transactions of the
chains and the proofs will call easy with
a function that's called post and verify
batches.
And then this will say, okay,
I have this call data or these blobs,
whatever.
and now i will check each rollup contract
so the rollup a and rollup b and
if if they are if this proof that
the that the user or the batcher is
providing me is good enough for them right
so imagine that i'm using a a proof
for the let's see almost
for the prover A,
for the prover B and a multi-sig, right?
And then maybe it will check and say
rollup A, okay,
the rollup A accepts the verifier A and
the multi-sig.
And the rollup B only accepts the
zero-knowledge,
the proof system A and the proof system
B, sorry.
So yeah, sorry,
the schema is a little bit small,
but the point is like,
basically each rollup has been defined
which prover systems accept.
Here the easy contract will check that we
provide all the proofs necessary for each
rollup.
And if that's true,
we will verify all the proofs of all
the proof systems.
And if everything returns true,
we will be we we accomplish the settlement
right we will be able to settle multiple
rollers in the same transaction which is
very nice because this allows of course
they they can both not only verify their
own transactions but verify the
interactions between rollups and for
instance we allow a asynchronous
composability thank you
so okay so to manage so now let's
see what happens when we verify this proof
and this is very linked to how we
manage the synchronous composability
between r one and any any any chain
that not is not r one so when
we verify a proof we one we update
the state of each chain that was verified
like before we update the rollup one and
the rollup two
and we append or we store in the
contract something that we call an
execution entry an execution entry a it
will be safe basically the the l one
interactions and now explain what we are
doing
So we are not ever doing any optimistic
stuff in the sense that saying, OK,
I will do interact L one to L
two, right?
And we wanted to do it synchronous.
So when the user interacts with the
contract, with any L two contract,
we want already to have been proven this
execution so we can already know the
result of this execution.
So what that means is when the system
verifies a proof or when the system does
this verification,
it advance itself in time or it kind
of predicts the transactions in L one that
will happen.
and and it will have let's say a
response for that so for example to do
an easy example imagine that we want we
want to do a bridge or we want
to just send ether from user a to
uh to a to user b but user
b is on another rollout right
so then and that will mean that we
will add an execution entry that basically
we will put in the proxy entry hash
which is how we define these interactions
and we find okay we expect that the
user array sent one ether to this to
this address in lto later we see how
we manage this cross chain proxies or
cross chain transactions
But basically,
we expect the L one transaction to happen.
If it does happen,
it will match the execution entry.
It will update the state.
As we see,
there is an entry that's called state
deltas.
We'll update the state of the rollup one
and we'll return the value if it's the
case, which in this case, no,
because it was a plain ether transfer,
right?
But this is very powerful because you can
extend this on whatever you want.
So you can make the same interaction,
but now instead of a user,
you interact with another smart contract
and it returns your value.
And then there you go, right?
You accomplish a synchronous
composability.
The user just interact with a smart
contract.
and it gets a return value in the
same transaction.
So from the user perspective,
he didn't go out from L one and
it already interacts with L two, right?
And you can even go ahead and make
nested calls.
So you can even call L two and
then L two can call L one again
And then we encode these L two to
L one goals inside of this execution
entry.
So this can get more complicated,
but also more powerful, right?
Once you have this structure and you're
able to prove this structure with zero
knowledge,
basically you allow a lot of
possibilities.
You allow the users to interact with any
chain
and it's true that from the prover
perspective and from the building
perspective you have to do more work but
from the UX perspective of the user of
the apps it's amazing because they only
see one chain and they just have to
interact the same as always and they have
an instant result.
So let's see an example.
So this will be, yes,
this will be the first example because the
other one is a little bit more
complicated,
which is a user that interacts what we
call a cross-chain proxies.
So what we do to make an experience
frictionless basically is to create a
cross-chain proxies,
which means that
each address of a rollup,
or let's say rollup A,
each address of a rollup A,
anyone can permissionally create a proxy
in Ethereum, right?
For example,
I want to interact with user B,
so then I will need to create a
proxy for the user B in Ethereum, right?
And once I create this proxy,
that is forever,
and I can interact with it.
and that will be the same as sending
ether to the user b in rollup a
And this can be extended to the contracts
as well.
If there is an Uniswap on rollup A,
it can create a proxy of the Uniswap.
And if I interact with this one,
with this contract,
it's the same as interact the Uniswap on
rollup A. So as we see before,
this interaction,
the user just calls the proxy,
as it will call any smart contract with
any call data.
And the proxy just forwards this call to
the easy contract.
and then easy contract will do what i
explained before that we see it will kind
of hash right the interaction that we got
so we'll say okay it's calling rollup a
to this address with this call data it
will hash and we'll say do we have
an execution entry for for for this call
yes so if it does have it and
it will update the state of rollup a
or rollup a sorry and return any value
or
the other complicated stuff that I
explained or the nested calls if they are.
But in this case, it's a simple case,
so it's not.
Then it will return the data,
it will return the data to the user,
which in this case is doing nothing
because it's a normal example,
but you can just return values in the
same transaction, which is pretty cool.
So next example here.
So the example is similar to the other
one, but now we have an step call,
right?
Now we have this weird case, which we,
well, weird or normal, let's say,
which we call a rollup.
And when I'm calling a smart contract on
layer two,
this smart contract calls me to L one
again.
I'm sorry if the scheme is a little
bit small.
Maybe I should put this schema somewhere.
But the first pass is the same one,
right?
The same thing.
But there is one point where it changes
that when we go to the easy contract,
instead of returning right away,
we then execute all the L two to
L one calls that in this case,
I say full,
it's calling a contract C with a full
call data.
And then I make it even more difficult
because this contract, so this L two,
this L two is calling to L one.
So this is going to L one.
And then this L one is calling again
to L two.
So as you see,
you can go as far as you want.
It doesn't matter.
Once you build the system is the same
thing kind of grouping one or more.
Once you prove the whole nested thing,
it's the same to do it more than
once.
Of course, it's not easy to go there.
So as I was saying,
you call this contract C from L two,
and this contract C calls again,
maybe you don't see it,
but it calls again rollup B,
so another contract with another address.
And this is another contribution of the
address on another rollup can return a
value.
And then the contract C will return.
And then finally,
EZ will return a value to the user
or return that data to the user, right?
So maybe it's a bit complex example,
but I want to show up that you
can do like multiple cross-chain
interactions, like L one to L two,
and then L two goes to L one
and L one goes to another L two.
You can do whatever you want.
Like it's a schema,
it's pretty flexible and allows all of
those interactions.
And next slide.
And again, the first schema that we saw,
I hope that now it seems a little
bit more familiar or you understand it a
little bit better.
And I hope it's a little bit useful
to understand a little bit better how Ease
is working from the smart contract
perspective.
And thank you so much.
okay so thank you so much jesus now
jordi um it's your turn um yeah hello
hello i want to explain a little bit
how the proving system is well first i
we already mentioned but i think it's
important to mention that the system is
not uh so it's not so it can
be as many proving systems
as you want.
So anybody is able to define a proving
system, okay?
And the roll-ups will decide which proving
systems they accept to modify the step
that they're following the rules, okay?
So it's not limited to one single proving
system and it's not married with a
specific proving system.
Actually these proving systems could be ZK
proving systems,
could be TE proving systems,
could be signature proving systems,
can be one many and this is important
because it will allow roll-ups to define
these two out of three proving systems
maybe needs to be corrected z-scan sp-one
and maybe one signature one
so each roll up will be able to
define which one maybe this is this roll
up contract that has was mentioned i think
this is important thing okay so how will
all these proving systems how they connect
all together because we have like uh we
have an execution let's see what we have
to prove okay so um way to see
what we have to prove is when we
have um calls we have a random calls
between roll ups or even between l one
roll up and then two roll ups
actually we can divide the way of dividing
with what's the minimal chunk i mean
what's the minimal part that's happening
well a minimum part is an execution that
happens uh it's a small execution that
doesn't there is no roll up change for
example in a normal transaction in roll up
a that's calling roll up b and then
returning i mean normal return it will be
three chunks of those okay so one
the transaction one that we'll start.
So we go,
we'll start the transaction one and we'll
do a call.
Then another chunk that's gonna happen in
B,
that B will do the execution in B,
and then the context will go back to
rollup A,
and then we'll finish with this return,
and then we'll finish the execution.
So we have like three chunks,
three execution chunks.
So we have ten transactions and they are
calling one each other.
We can have like thousands of these
chunks.
In this chunk,
this is defined in a single roll-up.
It's a state transition function.
We call it action-driven state transition
function, but it's very much, I mean,
it's like a more generic thing.
State transition function generally refers
to a transaction.
An action-driven state transition
function, it can be referred to an action.
An action can be, for example, a call.
It's not a transaction,
it's a call that's
that you've received there, okay?
And this update your state, okay?
So in this call,
this will be three pieces of there, okay?
So all this table,
so when we have like many transactions,
we have this table, okay?
And this is very much what we have
to prove.
I mean,
each prover system will have to prove one
of these chunks, okay?
But actually, from the L-one perspective,
if we,
can you go to the next slide?
if we go to the,
so if we go,
so what we see from just an L
one, so in this case,
if we are actually good, I mean,
it is a call,
it's just a roll up.
So in the case of the layer one,
we see something it's like another table
but it's a derivative of this okay so
in the regular one they say okay if
you do so you can execute a transaction
is the inaction is null because it's just
a transaction and the result is null
because this is just executing one
transaction but saying okay if you're
executing this transaction updating these
states the state of the rollup a and
rollup b according to this this is going
to be correct
And this table,
this is when you are creating a batch,
this is very much what you are building
in L one.
Actually,
you are building all these requirements
from what you see from the L one
perspective,
and you are hashing it together.
So what you need to prove is that
this table is correct.
Inside the proving system,
you should have deterministically a way to
go from table,
from this first table to the second table.
This is for a single transaction that
updates two roll-ups because a transaction
that is touching two roll-ups.
But if you have, for example,
ten transactions that touches three
roll-ups between them,
this could be just a single entry that
goes from here to here.
The problem is that when you have
transactions that also interacts with
L-one, you need some extra information.
So you can go to the next slide.
So in this case, for example,
it is from an L one to roll
up A. So here we would have,
actually I put here three,
but here we will have like five different
chunks.
The first and the last chunk,
because they are happening in L one,
they are not in the table,
but actually
Imagine that they are there, okay?
And here we would have,
this is a nested call.
So you call here, okay?
And the rollup one is calling L one
again, and then you go back and forth,
okay?
So how this will be translated.
If you go to the next state,
Actually,
this would be translated in what you need
from L one.
Okay.
And what you need from L one is
something that's a little bit more
difficult.
It's not just some modification of a state
transition functions.
Okay.
It's a mistake here, but it's okay.
It would also will have is like, okay,
in order to execute this transaction in L
one is like here you need to,
you need to also do some inner calls
on L one and
you would expect something L two calls in
there.
So this structure is a little bit more
complex because it's everything.
So all this structure is everything you
need in order to execute those
transactions in a consistent way between L
ones and L twos, okay?
And all these,
the L one to L two calls,
expected L one to L two calls and
the SQL entries,
this is what will be hashed uh from
the uh l one uh smart contract okay
so this the i this is here you
will have only like interactions with l
one but don't do that to l two
they will be uh
I mean, you will not see there.
I mean, they will be kind of hidden,
okay?
But they will be in the initial call.
This call, this will be extensive,
but you don't need to hash that in
L one.
This can be a hash and this is
just shared with all the double apps,
okay?
And the idea is that this translation from
the first table to the second table,
All the proving systems will have to
verify that.
And each proving system will verify the
parts of this table that affects to
themselves.
And only the proof will be accepted if
all the proof of all the proving systems
are correct.
And in the hash,
you will also add which rollups needs to
be verified in each proving system.
so this is what gives the the full
system is consistent this all this happens
in a single uh transaction in the smart
contract so smart contract is very easy at
the end it's just one transaction where
you build all this call you pass the
proofs of all the proving systems that you
have and you check that those proofs are
correct and and very much that's it you
execute the you execute the the you
execute the all these transactions by
very much updating the states of the
rollups and by executing the things in the
one that requires for all these
transactions to happen and of course
checking that the consistency is uh
correct okay but important this idea
important parts
many proving systems so the system is
multi-proving system you can use more
proving systems and they have they share
the same structure i mean the same but
at the end is a table uh that
hashes it all of them they there are
some pieces that are common to them that
they all of them they need to uh
verify and the system is correct if all
the proving systems are correct if there
is of course one malicious proving system
uh this would
So all the roll-ups are safe except for
the roll-ups that, of course,
they are accepting this malicious proof
system.
But if the roll-up that there is at
least, the roll-up that is proving system,
it's a two out of three because two
out of three are correct,
then that roll-up will not be able to
be modified,
it will not be able to be updated
unless they are following this
action-driven state transition function.
There is more details I would love to
explain longer in some other sessions or
in person,
but this is a little bit the big
idea for the multi-proving system.
I don't know if Edu or Armagan,
you want to continue?
Yeah, I can continue, but Jordi,
I don't know if you want to mention
about these three points that you had in
your slides about the smart contract
representation, proof system selection.
It's a summary, I guess, that you did.
Yeah,
I think that Jesus already mentioned that
each roll-up is represented by a contract.
Important is that, I mean,
a roll-up can be absolutely decentralized,
stateless.
It's a roll-up with no owner, no thing.
I mean, this is perfectly possible.
Or it can be a fully centralized roll-up
where you can update the state.
You can do whatever you want and you
have very high sovereignty, okay?
And the system is widely available.
Anybody should be able to define a
roll-up.
I mean,
the idea is that all these smart
contracts, they shouldn't be updatable.
This is the idea.
So the system should be fully
decentralized.
It should be fully trustless system.
It's just a smart contract running on
Ethereum.
the idea that we are building and it's
absolutely permissionless so anyway
anybody should be able to define uh their
own roll up and everybody should be able
to define uh their proving system and it's
just a matter of uh accepting one each
other okay and uh yeah um yeah this
is very much the the the i think
already mentioned uh uh everything in
there okay okay this is my summary yeah
Okay,
moving forward I'm going to talk quickly
about the roadmap.
Probably today we have gone too deep into
details about the smart contract but
mainly that is because it's our current
stage.
We are just finalizing the smart contract
right now because we expect to start to
audit as soon as possible.
Our intention is to have a final version
by mid-July after audits and after all of
the reviews.
That is why we want to go deep
on this part,
mainly because we expect to have some
community feedback on regards of this
smart contract,
because at the end of the day is
the core of our system.
That is why it's important for us to
have something flexible enough to cover
all the cases and something that is strong
for the future.
Apart from that, yeah,
we are currently working on several fronts
in parallel.
We are working on the Composer and the
Multi-Prover.
So at the end of the day,
we need to implement this smart contract
functionality to provide this data to the
smart contract.
That's mainly what the Composer is doing.
And also we are starting to add in
multi-proof system verifiers.
So yeah,
our intention is to have the first roll-up
live by mid-June with the idea of having
maybe not only functionality,
but at least the most important
functionality, L-to-L-one calls,
L-to-L-one calls,
having the proven system is obviously
a reduced version of what we want to
expect to have,
but at least something that allows us to
mature this technology and to make it
production ready.
And after that,
by the end of the summer,
we expect to have the roll-up one,
a basic roll-up that fulfill all the
vision that we expect and allow us to
show to the community how any roll-up can
use this atomic compressibility to
interact with the network.
So yeah, I mean,
we expect to start to give more updates
about our working status and also probably
we need to create some specific content to
explain technical details because as you
have detected,
it has quite complexity and it's not easy
to maybe understand at the beginning.
But yeah,
we are having this intention to explain as
easy as possible to anyone and allow
anyone to provide feedback to us.
So yeah.
This is more or less the technical update,
so thank you.
thank you edardo it was pretty nice and
detailed presentation and thank you all
the jordi and yesus yeah tech is solid
real-time proof atomic execution um so i
want to talk about the economy economic
effects of easy and i would like to
invite frederica here to talk about more
so i am inviting frederica again and
removing to
Hello again.
So yeah,
let's talk about a little bit of the
economic aspect of easy.
We saw a few stage two solutions was
introduced more than two years ago.
They are all great.
Technically, they are brilliant teams,
but we see a relatively low adoption.
How will EZB be different from the other
solutions and what does it actually mean
economically?
Yeah, that's a super fair question.
So if you look at stage two roll-ups,
what makes them stage two is the security
guarantees.
They have the same security guarantees as
Ethereum.
At the same time,
they have significant drawbacks.
So kind of you rely exclusively on layer
one validators.
You have one block every twelve seconds
with Ethereum,
so you can't have faster block times.
And it kind of as as always,
kind of you have the chicken and egg
problem, right?
Kind of like you kind of have a
you have an ecosystem that kind of you
need to build up while you actually have
pretty large public costs, right?
Kind of like if you want to get
into every block and then kind of this
is a significant overhead and then kind of
you need to make sure there's enough
activity to actually make that
economically viable.
what the Ethereum economic zone does
differently is kind of, I mean,
the Venn diagram of kind of like what
base roll-ups and what roll-ups within the
EEZ do or can do is basically a
smaller circle and a larger circle.
So kind of base roll-ups can very easily
become parts of the EEZ.
But
other roll-ups can become part of the EEZ
too.
And what the EEZ natively offers is a
way to synchronously compose.
And in principle,
this is also possible for base roll-ups.
It's just something that was never really
built end-to-end because real-time proving
is a pretty new thing.
I would say if you had the security
guarantees that Ethereum gives you for
base roll-ups,
you did not have the network effects that
we see in the Ethereum Economic Zone.
The idea behind the Ethereum Economic Zone
is that you can touch applications across
different parts of the Ethereum Economic
Zone within the same transaction.
Meaning you don't actually have to rebuild
everything from scratch on your network.
You don't have to endlessly replicate
systems that are already there on other
networks.
Same for liquidity, right?
So kind of if you look at a
lot of what L-tos do today,
they're basically swimming against the
current, right?
So kind of like they have to make
sure they have liquidity for the relevant
token pairs.
They need to make sure they have
DEX protocols deployed in money markets
and all the other DeFi primitives people
come to expect.
They need to make sure they have the
right stable deployments.
They need to make sure they have on
and off ramps, sex integrations, oracles,
identities, and so on.
And so kind of what we actually ended
up with in the larger Ethereum ecosystem
is Ethereum plus a couple of
mini-Ethereums on top of Ethereum.
where kind of basically everything that
Ethereum has is replicated in some shape
or another.
And that doesn't,
this doesn't engender network effects,
right?
Kind of like you want something where you
can bring something new to the table.
You can plug into an existing network and
you can add
kind of a specific use case or a
specific user group or kind of a proving
mechanism,
or you can add privacy or fast blocks
or whatever you want.
You can have a consortium chain where you
control the validators.
You can have a lot of different chains
that can bring different
different things to the table without
having to replicate what's already there.
So kind of the tech behind base roll-ups
is really good.
I would say kind of a lot of
the thinking kind of has informed the
architecture of the theorem economic zone.
But also kind of, I mean,
we see L-one scaling now for the first
time, right?
So kind of like if you actually look
at the history of L-one,
kind of the scaling efforts we've seen so
far have been largely L-two based,
but kind of now we can actually scale
L-one with increasing the gas limits and
kind of doing also decay probing on L-one.
So kind of to the extent
that possibly bandwidth actually becomes
the main constraint in building blocks.
And I think in this reality in which
we're heading,
kind of the L-two and adjacent ecosystems
that we'll need are ecosystems that
complement L-two,
not ecosystems that just replicate
the same value proposition that kind of
Ethereum already fulfills.
So kind of stage two L-tos,
they were quite restricted in kind of the
user experience that they offered to dApp
developers building on top of them.
And the Ethereum Economic Zone
basically now allows all kinds of roll ups
and technically you don't even have to be
a roll up to kind of join the
economic zone.
And I think that's the beauty of it.
So it's maximally permissive in terms of
who can partake.
It's not opinionated.
It's open source software.
It belongs to everyone.
It should belong to everyone.
And I think that's going to be what
will ensure that this is the architecture
that we will see for Ethereum in the
future.
Thanks for the super,
super comprehensive answer for this
question.
Yeah, we have lots of topics to talk.
And I believe it was a detailed stream
for our first community call.
Let's say it's the Genesis call,
Genesis community call.
For more talk, for more details,
we will be at the DAPCon in mid-June
at Berlin.
I invite everyone who is interested in
synchronous composability in terms of
technical wise and economical wise
uh we are planning a workshop and i
want everyone uh here so yeah that's wrap
thanks for everyone join our call uh hope
everyone like this uh detailed first
community call i just want to say thank
you and see you in the next call
bye guys